The Project Gutenberg eBook of Aunt Caroline's Dixieland recipes, by
Emma McKinney

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Aunt Caroline's Dixieland recipes

Authors: Emma McKinney
         William McKinney

Release Date: July 5, 2023 [eBook #71119]

Language: English

Credits: The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
         https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
         generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AUNT CAROLINE'S DIXIELAND
RECIPES ***





                   AUNT CAROLINE’S DIXIELAND RECIPES




                       Aunt Caroline’s Dixieland
                                Recipes

                                   By

                       EMMA and WILLIAM McKINNEY

                          A RARE COLLECTION OF
                         CHOICE SOUTHERN DISHES

                                Chicago
                           Laird & Lee, Inc.
                               Publishers




                            COPYRIGHT, 1922

                            BY WM. McKINNEY




                               Foreword


In the art of cooking the “Old Southern Mammy” has few equals and
recognizes no peers.

The following recipes have, with great patience and kindly
perseverance, been drawn from the treasured memories of Aunt Caroline
Pickett, a famous old Virginia cook, the “pinch of this” and “just
a smacker of that” so wonderfully and mysteriously combined by
the culinary masters of the Southland have been carefully and
scientifically analyzed and recorded in this volume, and after a
practical test of each recipe herein presented, the author can, with
the fullest degree of confidence, recommend the following as the most
attractive and economical combination ever presented.

The variety covers a range sufficient to fully gratify the demands
of the modest as well as the exacting tastes of the most pronounced
epicure, and have been carefully classified and alphabetically arranged
for the convenience of the housewife, and a page has been left blank
opposite each page of recipes for her own favorite dishes. It is the
author’s intention that this little book become a veritable treasure
trove of dainty, appetizing and tasty dishes.




In sweet memories of a happy childhood spent in the atmosphere of the
plantations and cabins of Virginia under the benign influence of my
Dear Old Southern Mammy, Aunt Caroline, this volume is affectionately
dedicated.

                                                        William McKinney




                               CONTENTS


Breads

Virginia Beaten Biscuit                                                1

Southern Sweet-Potato Biscuits                                         1

Johnny Reb Cake                                                        1

Spoon Bread                                                            3

Cinnamon Toast                                                         3

Piedmont Corn Meal Mush                                                3

Virginia Corn Fritters                                                 5

French Toast                                                           5

Mammy’s Graham Muffins                                                 5

Aunt Caroline’s Corn Bread                                             7

Bolted Corn Meal Bread                                                 7

Mammy’s Light Rolls                                                    9

Golden Toast                                                           9

Mississippi Biscuits                                                  11

Virginia Waffles                                                      11

Cotton Blossom Popovers                                               11

Dixie Biscuit                                                         13

Flour Muffins                                                         13

Baltimore Egg Bread                                                   15

Southern Pastry                                                       15

Griddle Cakes                                                         15

Sally Lunn                                                            17

Jeff Davis Muffins                                                    17

Carolina Corn Meal Rolls                                              19

Carolina Brown Bread                                                  19

Salt Rising Bread                                                     21


Beverages

Egg Nog--Maryland Style                                               23

Swanee Fruit Punch                                                    23

Louisiana Coffee                                                      23

Hot Chocolate                                                         25

Tea Southern Style                                                    25

Iced Tea                                                              25

Uncle Remus Mint Julep                                                27

Dewberry Vinegar                                                      27


Cakes

Devil’s Food Cake                                                     29

Filling for Devil’s Food Cake                                         29

Old Dominion Cake                                                     31

Filling for Old Dominion Cake                                         31

Angels’ Food Cake                                                     31

Magnolia Sponge Cake                                                  33

Filling for Magnolia Sponge Cake                                      31

Tutti Frutti Cake                                                     33

Brides Cake                                                           33

Ponciania Cake                                                        35

Sally White Cake                                                      35

Cabin Cake                                                            37

Filling for Cabin Cake                                                37

Pride of Kentucky Cake                                                37

Gold and White Anniversary Cake                                       39

Filling for Anniversary Cake                                          39

Marguerites                                                           39

Apple Sauce Cake                                                      41

Betsy Ross Pound Cake                                                 41

Marshmallow Filling                                                   41

Martha Washington Cake                                                43

Filling for Martha Washington Cake                                    43

Pickaninny Cookies                                                    39

Virginia Doughnuts                                                    45

Plantation Cookies                                                    45

Jelly Roll Cake                                                       47

Aunt Sug’s Nut Cookies                                                47

Ginger Snaps                                                          49

Mason and Dixon Cookies                                               49

Fruit Cake                                                            51


Candy

U. D. C. Cocoanut Candy                                               53

Mexican Kisses                                                        53

Mammy’s Peanut Candy                                                  53

Divinity Candy                                                        55

Almonds Creamed                                                       55

Chocolate Caramels                                                    55

Old Virginia Molasses Taffy                                           57

Cream Peppermint Drops                                                57

After Dinner Mints                                                    59

Peanut Butter Fudge                                                   59

Chocolate Fudge                                                       61

Sea-Foam Candy                                                        61


Meats

Fried Chicken, Virginia Style                                         63

Creole Veal Patties                                                   63

Sugar Cured Ham Loaf                                                  63

Baked Rice and Ham                                                    65

Martha Washington Cheese Pudding                                      65

Uncle Remus Omelette                                                  65

Old Fashioned Mince Meat                                              67

Fish Balls A La Maryland                                              67

Liver Fricasee                                                        69

Breaded Pork Chops, Philadelphia Style                                69

Salmon Croquettes                                                     69

Creamed Oysters                                                       71

Deviled Crabs                                                         71

Aunt Caroline’s Beef Loaf                                             71

Mammy’s Chicken Patties                                               73

Baked Fish                                                            73

Carolina Broiled Steak                                                73

Deviled Eggs                                                          73

Massas’ Cheese Croquettes                                             75

Oysters with Macaroni                                                 75

Scalloped Oysters                                                     75

Creamed Dried Beef With Cheese                                        77

Cheese Straws                                                         77

Chicken A La King                                                     77

Southern Hash                                                         79

Mammy’s Veal Loaf                                                     79

Chicken Croquettes                                                    79

Cream Sauce                                                           81

Perlean                                                               81


Pickles, Relishes

Aunt Caroline’s Own Pickle                                            83

Tar Heel Chow Chow                                                    83

Georgia Watermelon Rind Pickle                                        83

Apple Relish                                                          85

Corn Relish                                                           85

Bell Pepper Relish                                                    87

Green Tomato Pickle                                                   87

Picalli                                                               89

Stuffed Peppers                                                       89

Peach Pickle                                                          91

Chili Sauce                                                           91

Mount Vernon Pickle                                                   91

English Chopped Pickle                                                93


Pies and Desserts

Chess Pies                                                            95

Heavenly Hash                                                         95

Food For The Gods                                                     95

Stonewall Jackson Pudding                                             97

Syllabub                                                              97

U. D. C. Pudding                                                      99

Rhubarb Pie                                                           99

Jeff Davis Custard                                                   101

Cream Puffs                                                          101

Brown Betty                                                          101

Southern Apple Pie                                                   103

Caramel Custard                                                      103

Palmetto Marmalade                                                   103

Aunt Jemima’s Lemon Pie                                              105

Nut Bread                                                            105

Chocolate Pudding                                                    107

Maryland Bread Pudding                                               107

Sunset Raisin Pie                                                    107

Soft Ginger Bread                                                    109

Sauce for Ginger Bread                                               109

Cranberry Surprise                                                   109

Louisiana Molasses Custard                                           109

Jellied Apples                                                       111

Mammy’s Sweet Potato Pudding                                         111

Raisin Rolls                                                         111

New Orleans Dark Nut Bread                                           113

Baked Apple Dumplings                                                113

John Brown Custard                                                   113

Virginia Dare Pudding                                                115

Sweet Potato Custard                                                 115

Banana Custard                                                       115

Strawberry Shortcake                                                 117

Tapioca Custard                                                      117

Bavarian Cream                                                       117

Cranberry Snow                                                       117

Chocolate Pie                                                        119

Pumpkin Pie                                                          119


Salads and Dressings

Mayonnaise Dressing                                                  121

Maryland Chicken Salad                                               121

Potato Salad                                                         121

Wesson Oil Dressing                                                  121

Tomato Jelly                                                         123

French Dressing                                                      123

Waldorf Salad                                                        123

Mammy’s Dressing                                                     125

Pineapple and Cottage Cheese Salad                                   125

Water Lily Salad                                                     125

Marshmallow Salad                                                    127

Frozen Fruit Salad                                                   127


Soups

Old Virginia Brunswick Stew                                          129

Aunt Caroline’s Porridge                                             129

Cream of Celery Soup                                                 129

Tomato Bisque                                                        129

Tomato Soup, Creole Style                                            131

Dixieland Soup                                                       131

Cream of Tomato Soup                                                 131

Baltimore Oyster Stew                                                133

Cream of Pea Soup                                                    133

Cream of Chicken Soup                                                135

Oatmeal Soup                                                         135


Vegetables

General Pickett Corn Pudding                                         137

Dixie Potatoes                                                       137

Southern Creamed Sweet Potatoes                                      139

Stuffed Potatoes with Cheese                                         139

Scalloped Irish Potatoes                                             139

Stuffed Tomatoes                                                     139

Scalloped Tomatoes in Shells                                         139

Aunt Katy’s Macaroni                                                 141

Irish Potato Puffs                                                   141

Stewed Celery                                                        141

Baked Tomatoes                                                       141

Mammy’s Candied Sweet Potatoes                                       143

Boiled Turnips                                                       143

Stewed Green Corn                                                    143

Creole Potato Balls                                                  143

Potato Chips                                                         143

Stuffed Potatoes with Cheese and Bacon                               145

Jenny Lind Potatoes                                                  145

Carolina Sweet Potato Pone                                           145

Scalloped Potatoes                                                   147

French Fried Sweet Potatoes                                          147

Fried Egg Plant                                                      147




                                Breads


VIRGINIA BEATEN BISCUIT

    One quart flour,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    One tablespoon of lard.

Work lard lightly into the flour and salt, mix with iced water and then
beat dough with rolling pin until it blisters. Cut into biscuits and
bake in quick oven.


SOUTHERN SWEET-POTATO BISCUITS

    Two cups flour,
    One cup of mashed boiled sweet potatoes,
    Two tablespoonsful of lard,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    One and one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder,
    One-half teaspoonful of soda.
    Enough buttermilk to make soft dough.

Mix flour, salt, soda and baking powder together. Add sweet potatoes
and work the lard in lightly. Mix with milk to make soft dough, roll
thin cut into biscuits and bake in quick oven.


JOHNNY REB CAKE

    2 cupsful of flour,
    1 cupful of yellow meal,
    4 tablespoonsful of sugar,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt,
    1 teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of soda,
    or,
    2 teaspoonsful of baking-powder.

Add enough milk or water to make a thin batter, and bake.


SPOON BREAD

    Two and one-half cups of fresh buttermilk,
    One scant half teaspoonful of soda mixed in with milk,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    Three tablespoonsful of meal,
    Three eggs dropped in one at a time whole,
    One tablespoonful of lard (melted).

Mix in the order given and cook in baking dish in moderate oven.


CINNAMON TOAST

Cut stale bread into thin slices, remove crusts, and cut in halves;
toast evenly, and spread first with butter, then with honey, and dust
with cinnamon. Serve very hot.


PIEDMONT CORN MEAL MUSH

    3¹⁄₂ cups boiling water,
    1 teaspoon salt,
    1 cup fine corn meal.

Add meal to boiling salted water by sifting it slowly through the
fingers, while stirring rapidly with the other hand. Boil for ten
minutes, and cook over hot water for two hours. Serve hot as a cereal.
Or pour into one-pound baking powder boxes to cool; fry in deep fat.
Serve either for breakfast, or as an accompaniment to roast pork, or,
with syrup, for dessert.


VIRGINIA CORN FRITTERS

    1 can corn,
    ¹⁄₂ cup milk,
    ¹⁄₂ cup dried and sifted crumbs,
    1 teaspoon salt,
    1 teaspoon baking powder,
    1 egg well beaten,
    1 tablespoon flour.

Chop the corn, and add other ingredients in order given. Drop from a
tablespoon into hot, deep fat and fry until brown.


FRENCH TOAST

    1 egg slightly beaten,
    1 tablespoon sugar,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoonful salt,
    ³⁄₄ cup milk or coffee,
    4 slices bread.

Mix egg, salt, sugar, and liquid in a shallow dish; soak bread in
mixture, and cook on a hot greased griddle until brown, turning when
half cooked. Serve plain or spread with jam.


MAMMY’S GRAHAM MUFFINS

    1 pint of Graham Flour,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of Molasses,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonsful of salt,
    ¹⁄₂ pint of white flour,
    1 teaspoonsful of soda.

Put the salt into the flour and soda into the molasses. Stir all
together and mix with milk or water. Drop into Muffin tins and bake
twenty minutes.


AUNT CAROLINE’S CORN BREAD

    ³⁄₄ cup corn meal,
    ³⁄₄ cup flour,
    3 teaspoonsful baking powder,
    1 tablespoon sugar,
    ¹⁄₃ teaspoon salt,
    1 beaten egg,
    ³⁄₄ cup milk and water mixed,
    2 tablespoons melted bacon fat.

Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in a well-greased shallow pan
in a hot oven about twenty minutes. Half of the egg will make a very
good corn bread. Left-over pieces may be split, lightly buttered, and
browned in the oven.


BOLTED CORN MEAL BREAD

    2 cupsful of flour,
    1 cupful of corn meal, (bolted is best)
    2 cupsful of milk,
    2 teaspoonsful of cream of tartar,
    1 teaspoonsful of baking soda,
    1 egg,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of sugar,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt.

Stir the flour and meal together, adding cream of tartar, soda, salt
and sugar. Beat the egg, add the milk to it, and stir into the other
ingredients. Bake in a gem-pan twenty-minutes.


MAMMY’S LIGHT ROLLS

    Yeast,
    One egg beaten lightly,
    One tablespoonful of sugar,
    One half cake of yeast, dissolved in one-third cup of cold water,
    One cup of hot potatoes mashed fine,
    One quart of flour,
    One tablespoonful of lard,
    One teaspoonful of salt.

Put yeast mixed in the order given in a bucket to rise. Let it rise
for about forty-five minutes or longer. Then when risen, put it into
the flour, which has been mixed with the salt and lard. Do not knead
the flour, just stick it together and beat it for fifteen minutes with
rolling pin. If yeast does not make dough soft enough a little warm
water may be used. After beating the dough, put it into a vessel to
rise in warm place for about three hours. When risen, roll it lightly
until about one-fourth of an inch thick. Then cut with biscuit cutter
and dip into hot grease. Lastly fold the biscuits over and put into
pans to rise about an hour or more.

Graham rolls are made the same way.


GOLDEN TOAST

Toast as many slices of bread as desired. For twelve slices use three
hard boiled eggs and about two cups of cream sauce. Mash the whites of
the eggs fine and stir them into the cream sauce. Spread each piece of
bread when toasted with cream sauce, and then grate yolks over the top.
Return to oven and heat just before serving.


MISSISSIPPI BISCUITS

    Two cups of flour,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of soda,
    One and one-half teaspoonsful of baking powder,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    Two tablespoonfuls of lard.

Mix flour, baking powder and salt. Then work in lightly the lard and
mix with sufficient milk to make soft dough. Roll thin, cut into
biscuits with small biscuit cutter and bake in quick oven.


VIRGINIA WAFFLES

    One and one-half cups of pastry flour,
    Two teaspoonsful of baking powder,
    One-half teaspoonful of salt,
    Four tablespoonsful of melted butter,
    One cup of milk,
    Two eggs.

To beaten yolks add milk, flour, baking powder, salt and butter. Add
stiffly beaten whites last.


COTTON BLOSSOM POPOVERS

    Two eggs,
    One cup of milk,
    One cup of flour,
    One-half teaspoonful of salt.

Beat eggs together, add milk, and salt and pour this on the flour. Mix
well and bake about forty minutes in rather slow oven. Serve at once.


DIXIE BISCUIT

    One pint of milk,
    One teaspoonful of lard,
    Two teaspoonsful of butter,
    Two teaspoonsful of sugar,
    One heaping teaspoonful of salt,
    One-half yeast cake,
    Six cupfuls of flour.

Put milk on stove in double boiler with butter, salt, lard and sugar.
When milk becomes scalded, let it cool until blood heat. Dissolve yeast
and stir it into the scalded milk. Then add to milk when cooled two and
a half cups of flour and mix to a stiff batter. Next add an egg well
beaten to the batter and put the batter in a warm place to rise. Let it
rise bout five hours and then knead as for ordinary biscuit using three
and a half cups of flour. Knead until dough can be handled easily,
then roll out to one-half inch thickness. Rub each biscuit with melted
butter, put two biscuits together and place in pans far enough apart
not to touch. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in hot oven.


FLOUR MUFFINS

    Two eggs,
    One cup of milk,
    One and one-half cups of flour,
    One tablespoon of lard,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    Two teaspoonful of baking powder.

Beat eggs separately. To yolks, add salt, melted lard, milk, flour, and
baking powder. Lastly, put in the well beaten whites and bake twenty or
twenty-five minutes.


BALTIMORE EGG BREAD

    Two eggs,
    Three cups of meal,
    Four cups of sour milk,
    One tablespoonful of lard,
    One teaspoonsful of salt,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of soda,
    One and one-half teaspoonsful of baking powder.

Beat eggs well together, add milk, meal, salt, soda and baking powder
and lastly the hot melted lard. Bake in moderate oven. One cup of fresh
corn cooked until tender may be added to the batter.


SOUTHERN PASTRY

    One cup of flour,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of salt,
    One-fourth cup of lard or butter.

Mix flour and salt, work lard lightly into the flour and mix with iced
water to make stiff dough. Do not knead dough at all, just mix lightly
together.


GRIDDLE CAKES

    One and one-half cups of stale bread crumbs,
    Two cups of milk,
    One tablespoonful of butter,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    One-half cupful of flour.

Scald milk and pour over bread crumbs. Beat two eggs well together,
then add salt, milk and bread crumbs, flour and lastly the melted lard
or butter.


SALLY LUNN

    One quart of flour,
    Four eggs,
    One tablespoonful of sugar,
    One cup of yeast,
    One cup of milk,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    One-half cup of butter,
    One-half cup of lard.

Beat the eggs separately. Then mix and add yeast and sugar. Sift salt
into flour, melt butter and lard and add eggs, yeast and milk before
putting in flour. Leave in bowl and set away to rise. When risen, beat
hard and put into greased pan to rise again. For seven o’clock tea make
it at twelve.


JEFF. DAVIS MUFFINS

    Two eggs,
    One cup of sour milk,
    One cup of meal,
    One-half cup of flour,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    Two teaspoonsful of baking powder.
    One tablespoonful of lard.

Beat eggs separately. To yolks add salt, milk, melted lard, meal, flour
and baking powder. Lastly put in the well beaten whites and bake in
moderate oven.


CAROLINA CORN MEAL ROLLS

    1 cup meal,
    1 cup flour,
    4 teaspoonsful baking powder,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoon salt,
    3 tablespoons bacon fat,
    ³⁄₄ cup milk.

Mix and sift dry ingredients; rub in shortening with finger tips,
add milk and mix thoroughly; roll lightly, on a floured board to a
thickness of one-half inch; cut with biscuit cutter, brush with milk or
water, and fold double. Bake in hot oven fifteen minutes.


CAROLINA BROWN BREAD

(Baked)

    1 cupful of Indian Meal,
    1 cupful of Rye meal,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of flour,
    1 cupful of molasses (scant),
    1 cupful of milk or water,
    1 teaspoonful of soda.

Put the meals and flour together. Stir soda into molasses until it
foams. Add salt and milk or water. Mix all together. Bake in a tin pail
with cover on for two and a half hours.


SALT RISING BREAD

Pour one pint of boiling sweet milk over three heaping tablespoonsful
of corn meal. Beat well and set in a warm place all night. On the
morning add to the mixture a pint of warm milk or water, a teaspoonful
of sugar, a pint of flour. Beat well and set in a warm place for about
two hours or until it looks spongy. Then add one teaspoonful of salt,
one tablespoonful of lard and enough flour to make a soft dough. Work
fifteen minutes, knead into loaves, let them rise one or two hours, and
then bake an hour or longer.




                               Beverages


EGG NOG--MARYLAND STYLE

Beat the yolk of one egg, add a teaspoonful of sugar, and a small pinch
of salt, then pour in slowly stirring all the while a cup of milk. Pour
in a glass and put spoonful of whipped cream on top and any quantity of
“flavoring desired.”


SWANEE FRUIT PUNCH

    Two cups of sugar,
    One cup of water,
    One cup of tea,
    One pint of strawberry syrup,
    Juice of ten lemons,
    Juice of six oranges,
    Two cans of grated pineapple,
    One large bottle of Maraschino cherries.

Make syrup by boiling sugar and water together for ten minutes. Add
the tea, fruit juices, pineapple, and strawberry syrup. Let stand
thirty minutes, strain and add enough iced water to make one or one and
one-half gallons of liquid. Turn into large punch bowl over a piece of
ice and lastly add cherries. This quantity will serve about ten people.


LOUISIANA COFFEE

One heaping tablespoonful of coffee, a little white of egg, one cup of
boiling water (Allow this quantity for each person). Scald the coffee
pot, add the coffee, egg, and sufficient cold water to moisten. Mix
well, add the boiling water and cook five minutes. Then place where it
will keep hot, but not cook, for fifteen minutes. It is then ready to
serve.


HOT CHOCOLATE

    One and one-half squares of Baker’s Chocolate,
    Four teaspoonsful of sugar,
    Pinch of salt,
    One cup of boiling water,
    Three cups of milk,
    One-half teaspoonful of vanilla.

Melt the chocolate over hot water. Add the sugar, salt and boiling
water. When smooth, add the heated milk and cook twenty minutes in
double boiler. Then beat with egg beater and flavor. More sugar may be
added if desired.

An excellent substitute for whipped cream to serve with hot chocolate
is marshmallows. Drop one in each cup of the hot liquid.


TEA--SOUTHERN STYLE

Take one-half teaspoonful of tea to one cup of boiling water. Put the
tea in the pot, pour the boiling water upon it and let stand where it
will keep hot for five minutes. Then serve. Tea should never be boiled
for it makes it bitter.


ICED TEA

Use one scant teaspoonful of tea to one cup of boiling water. Pour
boiling water over tea leaves and let stand until milk warm. Then
strain and sweeten to taste while tea is still warm, as it requires
less sugar. Serve with crushed ice, green mint leaves, and sliced lemon
and orange.


UNCLE REMUS MINT JULEP

    ³⁄₄ cup sugar,
    Juice 3 lemons,
    1 cup of water,
    4 sprigs of mints,
    1 pint ginger ale,
    or
    “Any flavoring desired.”

Boil sugar and water ten minutes, and cool; add strained lemon juice,
mint leaves bruised, and ginger ale; half fill glasses with crushed
ice, and julep, and garnish with a sprig of mint.


DEWBERRY VINEGAR

Over three quarts of dewberries pour one pint of vinegar and let it
stand twenty-four hours. Strain and add one pound of sugar to one
pint of juice. Scald twenty minutes and bottle tight. Strawberry and
raspberry vinegar may be made in the same way.




                                 Cakes


DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE

    Two eggs,
    Two cups of brown sugar,
    One cup of butter,
    One cup of buttermilk,
    Three cups of flour,
    Half cake of melted chocolate,
    One and one-half tablespoons of cinnamon,
    One teaspoon of cloves,
    One teaspoon of allspice,
    One teaspoon of soda dissolved in half cup of boiling water.

Cream butter and sugar and add to well beaten eggs, next add milk,
melted chocolate, flour beaten in lightly, vanilla and spices, and
lastly the boiling water and soda. Bake in layer tins and moderate oven.


FILLING

(For Devil’s Food Cake)

    Two cups of white sugar,
    One cup of sweet milk,
    Half cake of chocolate,
    Yolk of one egg,
    Butter size of an egg,
    One teaspoonful of Vanilla.

Put all the ingredients except vanilla on to cook. Cook until thick,
then beat until creamy, add vanilla and spread on layers.


OLD DOMINION CAKE

Cream one cup of butter and two cups of powdered sugar. Add stiffly
beaten whites of six eggs, three cups of flour, in which has been
sifted two teaspoonsful of baking powder, and one teaspoonful of
vanilla. Bake in layers in moderate oven.


FILLING FOR OLD DOMINION CAKE

Put on two cups of white sugar with enough water to dissolve thoroughly
and cook until it spins a thread. Then add one teaspoonful of vanilla
and pour slowly over the whites of two eggs beaten stiff. Beat until
creamy and then spread on cake layers. Thickly strew the top of icing
with raisins, English walnuts and blanched almonds.


ANGEL’S FOOD CAKE

    Whites of eleven eggs,
    One cup of flour,
    One and one-half cups of sugar,
    One teaspoonful of cream of tartar,
    One teaspoonful of almond extract.

Sift flour and sugar together five times, then add cream of tartar.
Have whites well beaten and add sugar and flour slowly, then almond
extract. Beat very little after flour goes in and bake in round cake
pan in moderate oven for about fifty minutes.


FILLING

Put on to cook two and one-fourth cups of brown sugar, three
tablespoonsful of cream, one tablespoonful of butter. Cook until thick,
then beat until creamy and spread on layers.


TUTTI FRUTTI CAKE

    Two cups of sugar,
    One cup of milk,
    One cup of butter,
    Three cups of flour (sifted three times),
    One cup of cornstarch into which has been sifted three teaspoons of
     baking powder,
    One teaspoonful of almond extract.

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, flour, cornstarch and flavoring. Bake
in layers in moderate oven.


MAGNOLIA SPONGE CAKE

    Three eggs beaten separately and then together,
    One and one-half cups of sugar,
    One and one-half cups of flour,
    One and one-half teaspoonsful of baking powder,
    One-half cup of boiling water.

Mix in the order given and cook in biscuit pan in moderate oven.


BRIDE’S CAKE

    Whites of eighteen eggs,
    One pound of flour,
    One pound of sugar,
    Three-fourths pound of butter.

Sift flour three times after adding to it a teaspoonful of soda, and
two of cream of tartar. Cream butter and sugar until very light and add
to the stiffly beaten whites. Next add the flour, beating it in lightly
with the hand. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla or almond extract
and bake in slow oven.


PONCIANIA CAKE

    One pound of butter,
    One pound of sugar,
    One pound of flour,
    Juice and rind of one lemon,
    Nine eggs,
    One and one-fourth pounds of Almonds (in shell),
    One-half pounds of citron,
    One-half pound of raisins.

Cream butter and sugar and add to well beaten yolks. Next add
alternately the flour and the whites beaten stiff, then the fruits,
which have been cut fine and dredged with flour, and lastly the nuts.
Bake in a slow oven.


SALLY WHITE CAKE

    One pound of butter,
    One pound of flour,
    One and one-half pounds of sugar,
    One dozen eggs,
    Three pounds of citron chopped fine,
    Two small cocoanuts (grated),
    Two pounds of Almonds (blanched and chopped fine),
    One wine glass of brandy,
    One wine glass of wine,
    Three teaspoonsful of nutmeg,
    Two teaspoonsful of mace.

Cream butter and sugar and add to well beaten yolks. Next add flour and
whites beaten stiff, the fruit, nuts, brandy, wine and spices. Bake in
slow oven from four to five hours.


CABIN CAKE

To whites of eight eggs beaten stiff, add one cup of butter and
two cups of sugar creamed together. Next add three-fourths cup of
milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of baking powder and one
teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in layers in moderate oven.


FILLING

Put on to cook two cups of sugar and half a cup of water. Boil without
stirring until it jellies when dropped into cold water. Then pour over
stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, then stir into icing a small
quantity of citron, currants, dates, figs, raisins, almonds, English
walnuts (all chopped fine) and grated cocoanut, leaving out a similar
quantity to be put on top of cake when iced.


PRIDE OF KENTUCKY CAKE

    Four eggs,
    Three cups of flour,
    Two cups of sugar,
    One cup of butter,
    One cup of milk,
    Two teaspoonsful of baking powder,
    One teaspoonful of Vanilla.

Separate eggs leaving out two whites for filling. To beaten yolks, add
butter and sugar creamed together, then the milk, flour, baking powder
and vanilla and lastly whites of two eggs beaten stiff. Bake in layers
in moderate oven, and put together with any kind of filling desired.


GOLD AND WHITE ANNIVERSARY CAKE

    Whites of eight eggs,
    Two cups of sugar,
    One cup of crisco,
    Three cups of flour,
    One cup of milk,
    Two teaspoons of baking powder,
    One teaspoon of vanilla

Cream crisco and sugar and add to stiffly beaten whites, then add
the milk. Next beat the flour in lightly, and add baking powder and
vanilla. Bake in layer cake tins in a moderate oven.


FILLING FOR ANNIVERSARY CAKE

    Yolks of six eggs,
    Three cups of sugar,
    Enough water to dissolve sugar thoroughly.

Put sugar and water on to cook. Let it cook until it spins a thread,
then gradually pour it over the yellows, which have been beaten until
thick. Beat until filling becomes creamy, add one teaspoonful of
vanilla, and spread on layers.


MARGUERITES

Whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Add three tablespoonsful of sugar
slowly. Put on top of butterthins and sprinkle over with ground nuts
and brown in oven.


PICKANINNY COOKIES

Sift one quart of flour, make a hole in the center, put in two cups of
sugar, one of lard, one beaten egg, and one cup of sweet milk, into
which has been stirred a half teaspoonful of soda. Work all together,
roll thin and bake in a quick oven.


APPLE SAUCE CAKE

    One cup of butter,
    One cup of brown sugar,
    One cup of apple sauce,
    One and one-half teaspoonsful of soda (mixed in with apple sauce),
    Two cups of flour,
    One cup of raisins,
    One cup of currants,
    Two eggs.


BETSY ROSS POUND CAKE

    One pound of flour,
    Three-fourths pound of butter,
    One pound of sugar,
    Twelve eggs.

Cream butter and about two-thirds of the flour together. Beat whites of
eggs to a stiff froth, beat yolks of eggs and sugar together until very
light. Mix thoroughly all the ingredients, stirring in last the loose
flour. Bake in a slow oven until done.


MARSHMALLOW FILLING

    One-fourth pound of marshmallows,
    Whites of two eggs,
    One cup of sugar,
    One-half cup of water.

Boil sugar and water until it spins a thread. Cut up marshmallows
and pour boiling water over them to steam. When sugar is done,
pour gradually over the whites of two eggs beaten stiff, then add
marshmallows; beat until creamy and spread on cake layers.


MARTHA WASHINGTON CAKE

    Four eggs,
    Two cups of sugar,
    One cup of butter,
    One cup of sweet milk,
    Three cups of flour,
    One teaspoonful of baking powder,
    One-half pound of raisins,
    One teaspoonsful each of Cinnamon, cloves and allspice.

Cream butter and sugar and add to well beaten eggs. Next add the milk,
flour, baking powder, raisins and spices. Bake in layers in moderate
oven.


FILLING FOR MARTHA WASHINGTON CAKE

    Two cups of sugar,
    Juice and grated rind of two lemons,
    Two cups of grated cocoanut,
    One cup of boiling water.

When this begins to boil, add one tablespoonful of cornstarch dissolved
in a little cold water. Cook until it spins a thread, then beat until
creamy and spread between layers.


CHOCOLATE SAUCE

    1 tablespoonful of butter,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    2 tablespoonsful of cocoa,
    4 tablespoonsful of boiling water.

Put the butter into an agate dish on the stove; when melted, stir in
the cocoa and sugar dry; add boiling water and stir until smooth. Add
vanilla to taste.


VIRGINIA DOUGHNUTS

    Two eggs beaten light,
    Two cups of sugar,
    Three level tablespoonsful of melted butter,
    One cup of sour milk (if sweet milk is used, add one teaspoonful of
     cream of tartar),
    Four cups of flour,
    One-half teaspoonful of soda,
    One-half teaspoonful of cinnamon,
    One-half teaspoonful of salt.

Mix in the order given adding the dry ingredients sifted together and
enough more flour to make a dough just soft enough to handle. Have the
board well-floured, and the fat for frying, heating. Roll out only
a little at a time, cut into rings with an open cutter. Do all the
cutting before frying, as that will take your entire attention. The fat
should be hot enough for the dough to rise to the top instantly.


PLANTATION COOKIES

    2 eggs,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    1¹⁄₂ cupfuls of oatmeal, or Rolled Oats,
    ²⁄₃ cupful of cocoanut,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoonful of salt,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of vanilla,
    2 tablespoonsful of butter.

Cream the butter and sugar together and add the well-beaten eggs. Add
the remainder of the ingredients and drop on a well greased baking-pan.
Bake in a moderate oven, from fifteen to twenty minutes.


JELLY ROLL CAKE

    4 eggs,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    1 cupful of flour,
    1 teaspoonful of Cream of Tartar,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of soda,
    Pinch of salt,
    1 teaspoonful of extract of Lemon.

Beat together eggs and sugar, add salt and extract. Stir into the
dry flour the soda and cream of tartar. Mix all together. Bake in a
moderate oven, in a large pan, and turn out, when done, on a clean
towel, which has been sprinkled with powdered sugar. Spread with jelly
and roll while warm.


AUNT SUG’S NUT COOKIES

    One and one-half cups of sugar,
    One cup of crisco or butter,
    Three eggs,
    One tablespoonful of cinnamon,
    One-half teaspoonful of salt,
    One teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in four tablespoonsful of hot
     water,
    Three cups of flour,
    One-cup each of raisins, currants, and English walnuts or almonds
     broken up.

To well beaten eggs add creamed butter and sugar, cinnamon, soda,
water, flour, fruits, which must be dredged with flour, and nuts.
Lastly add one teaspoonful of vanilla and drop by spoonful into greased
pans. Bake in moderate oven.


GINGER SNAPS

    One-half cup of brown sugar,
    One cup of molasses,
    One-half cup of butter,
    One teaspoonful of baking powder,
    One teaspoonful of ginger,
    One-half pint of flour to begin with.

Put butter, powder and sugar into flour, add ginger and molasses. Add
more flour if needed. Roll out thin and bake in a quick oven.


MASON AND DIXON COOKIES

    One cup of brown sugar,
    One-half cup of melted shortening,
    One egg,
    One-half cup of sweet milk,
    One-half teaspoonful of soda sifted with flour,
    One and one-half cups of flour,
    One-half cup of chopped raisins,
    One-half cup of chopped nuts,
    One-half teaspoonful of salt,
    Three squares of melted chocolate.

Mix in order given and bake in moderate oven.


FRUIT CAKE

    One pound of white sugar,
    Three-fourths pound of butter,
    One pound of flour (one quart) sifted,
    Two pounds of raisins,
    One pound of currants,
    One pound of dates,
    One-half pound of citron,
    Ten eggs,
    One pound of figs,
    One ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves,
    Two teaspoonsful of baking powder mixed in with flour,
    One wine glass of brandy and one of wine.

Cream butter and sugar and add to well beaten yolks. Then add
alternately the flour and whites of the eggs beaten stiff; then the
wine and brandy spices. Lastly add the fruit which has been chopped
fine and dredged with flour, mix well together and bake about four
hours in a slow oven.




                                 Candy


U. D. C. COCOANUT CANDY

    Two cups of white sugar,
    One-half cup of milk,
    One cup of grated cocoanut,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla,
    Butter the size of an egg.

Put sugar, milk and butter on to cook. Let it cook until it will form a
soft ball when tried in cold water. Add vanilla, remove from stove, and
beat in the cocoanut until it becomes creamy. Pour into buttered plates
and cut into squares when cold.


MEXICAN KISSES

    Three cups of white sugar,
    One cup of milk,
    Butter the size of an egg,
    One cup of nuts,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put sugar and butter and milk on to cook. Cook until it will form a
soft ball when tried in cold water. Add vanilla, remove from stove and
beat until creamy. Then put in nuts and drop from spoon on buttered
papers.


MAMMY’S PEANUT CANDY

    Two cups of brown sugar,
    One cup of chopped peanuts,
    One cup of water,
    Butter the size of an egg.

Cook about twenty minutes, beat until creamy, and pour into buttered
plates. When cold cut into squares.


DIVINITY CANDY

    Three cups of white sugar,
    Three-fourths cup of white Karo syrup,
    Whites of two eggs,
    Three-fourths cup of water,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put sugar, syrup and water on to cook. Let it cook until it will form
a hard ball when tried in cold water. Remove from stove and pour
gradually over stiffly beaten whites. Add vanilla and one cup of nuts
and beat until creamy. Pour into buttered plates and cut into squares
when cold.


ALMONDS, CREAMED

Shell and blanch burnt almonds and lay them in the open oven to dry,
but do not let them brown. Put one cup of granulated sugar over the
fire with a tablespoon of water; stir until it is well dissolved and
comes to a boil. Drop into this the blanched almonds a few at the time
and take them out immediately with a perforated spoon or candy dipper,
laying them on waxed paper until they harden, or upon buttered plates.


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS

Mix in a saucepan two cups of brown sugar, half a cup each of molasses
(not syrup) and cream, half a cake of unsweetened chocolate, and four
tablespoons of butter, bring to a boil slowly, taking care the sugar
does not scorch before it is entirely melted, cook steadily until
a little of the candy is brittle if dropped in cold water, add two
teaspoons vanilla, turn into a greased pan, and cut into squares as
soon as it is cool.


OLD VIRGINIA MOLASSES TAFFY

Put a pint of New Orleans molasses over the fire in a saucepan and
boil for twenty minutes. Stir in a quarter teaspoon of baking soda
and boil fifteen minutes longer, or until a little, dropped into cold
water, becomes brittle. This candy must be stirred constantly while
it is cooking or it will scorch. When it reaches the brittle stage,
add a teaspoon of vinegar and a tablespoon of butter and pour into
well-buttered pans. Mark into shape with a buttered knife after the
candy begins to form and before it is really hard.


CREAM PEPPERMINT DROPS

Put a half cup of cold water and two cups of granulated sugar into a
clean saucepan and boil slowly, without stirring, until it spins thread
from the tip of a spoon dipped into it. Take from the stove, leave it
untouched until it is about blood-warm, then stir steadily, always in
one direction until the mixture begins to become creamy. Flavor to
taste with essence of peppermint, adding this cautiously so as not to
get the flavor too strong. Drop by the teaspoonful upon waxed paper,
being careful not to put the drops so close together that they will run
into each other. A candy dipper is even better for this purpose than a
teaspoon.


AFTER DINNER MINTS

    2 cups of sugar,
    ¹⁄₃ cup boiling water,
    ¹⁄₄ cup molasses,
    4 drops oil of spearmint.

Put sugar and molasses into a smooth, clean saucepan, and add boiling
water, heat gradually to the boiling point, and boil to 258 degrees
F., or until candy becomes brittle when tested in cold water, add
flavoring, pour on an oiled slab or platter and when cool enough to
handle pull until nearly white; pull into long strips about half an
inch in diameter, and cut in small pieces with scissors; roll in
powdered sugar, and keep in a covered jar for several days before using.


PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE

    Three cups of white sugar,
    Three-fourths cup of milk,
    One-half cup of peanut butter,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put sugar, peanut butter and milk on to cook. Let it cook until it will
form a soft ball when tried in cold water. Add vanilla, remove from
stove and beat until creamy. Pour into buttered plates and cut into
squares when cold.


CHOCOLATE FUDGE

    Three cups of brown sugar,
    Three-fourths cup of water,
    Butter the size of an egg,
    One-half cake of chocolate,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put sugar and water on to cook. When it begins to boil, add butter, and
let it cook until it will form a soft ball when tried in cold water.
Add vanilla, remove from stove, and beat in the chocolate. Beat until
creamy, then pour into buttered plates. Cut into squares when cold.


SEA-FOAM CANDY

    Four cups of brown sugar,
    One cup of water,
    Whites of two eggs,
    One cup of nuts,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put sugar and water on to cook. Let it cook until it spins a thread.
Then add vanilla, remove from stove, and pour slowly into whites
of eggs beaten stiff. Beat until stiff and then drop from spoon on
buttered paper. Add nuts just before candy gets creamy and hard.




                                 Meats


FRIED CHICKEN VIRGINIA STYLE

Cut a young tender dressed fowl into small pieces. Salt well and let
stand several hours. Then wash and drain, dip each piece of chicken
into flour, to which has been added salt and black pepper, and fry a
golden brown in deep hot fat. Let chicken fry slowly.


CREOLE VEAL PATTIES

    1¹⁄₂ cupsful of boiled rice,
    1 cupful of veal,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of poultry dressing,
    1 egg,
    1 tablespoonful of milk.

Grind or chop the veal, salt, and stir into the rice with the dressing;
beat the eggs, add milk, and stir all together. Drop a tablespoonful
spread out thin on the griddle, and fry as you would griddle-cakes.
Pork, or lamb may be used instead of veal.


SUGAR CURED HAM LOAF

    1 pound raw ham,
    2 beaten eggs,
    1 cup dried crumbs,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoon mustard,
    1 cup boiling water,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt.

Put ham, including the fat, through meat chopper; add crumbs, water,
eggs, and seasoning; mix well, and bake in a small bread pan, in a slow
oven, an hour and a half; or cook in steamer two hours.


BAKED RICE AND HAM

    ¹⁄₂ cup rice,
    1 tablespoon onion finely chopped,
    2¹⁄₂ cups stock or water,
    2 cups milk,
    2 tablespoonsful carrot finely chopped,
    ¹⁄₂ cup cooked ham finely chopped.

Wash rice, place in greased baking dish; add liquid, ham, vegetables,
and salt if necessary. Bake slowly for three hours; stirring
occasionally during the first hour. Ham stock or corned beef stock may
be used, and any cooked meat substituted for ham. Serve with boiled
spinach or dressed lettuce.


MARTHA WASHINGTON CHEESE PUDDING

Slice one-half pound of cheese in thin slices, cover with water and
cook on top of the stove until cheese has thoroughly melted. Then
remove from the stove and when cool add to it two eggs well beaten, one
tablespoon of flour, one-half teaspoon of salt, pinch of red pepper and
one-fourth teaspoon of baking powder. Put in greased baking dish, cover
top with bits of butter and bake in moderate oven.


UNCLE REMUS OMELETTE

To four eggs beaten separately add three tablespoonfuls of milk, a
small quantity of butter and a pinch of salt. Pour quickly into a hot
greased pan. Let remain on stove two minutes, then place inside oven
for three minutes. Take out and fold twice; serve immediately.


OLD FASHIONED MINCE MEAT

    4 cupfuls of chopped meat,
    12 cupfuls of chopped apples,
    2 cupfuls of chopped suet,
    1 cupful of vinegar,
    3 cupfuls seeded raisins,
    1 cupful seeded currants,
    5 cupfuls of brown sugar,
    1¹⁄₂ cupfuls of molasses,
    6 teaspoonsful of cinnamon,
    3 teaspoonsful of cloves,
    1 teaspoonful of nutmeg,
    ¹⁄₂ pound of citron,
    Rind and juice of one lemon,
    Butter the size of an egg,
    Salt.

Moisten with cold coffee or strong tea. Cook slowly two hours.


FISH BALLS A LA MARYLAND

    1 cupful of hot mashed potatoes,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of shredded cod-fish,
    2 teaspoonsful of melted butter,
    2 tablespoonsful of milk,
    Salt to taste.

Put the fish into a piece of cheese-cloth, let cold water run over it,
and squeeze dry. Mix ingredients all together. Take a little flour
in the hand and roll half a tablespoonful of the mixture between the
palms, to the size of a small peach. Fry in deep fat.


LIVER FRICASEE

    1 pound liver,
    4 tablespoons flour,
    2 cups boiling water,
    ³⁄₄ teaspoon salt,
    2 tablespoons bacon fat,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon paprika,
    1 tablespoon grated onion,
    6 slices toast.

Cut liver into half-inch cubes, and soak in cold salted water fifteen
minutes; drain; cover with the boiling water, and simmer six minutes;
cook bacon fat, onion and flour until brown; add seasonings, and stock
in which liver was cooked; stir until smooth; add liver, and pour over
toast or small, thin baking powder biscuit.


BREADED PORK CHOPS PHILADELPHIA STYLE

    6 chops,
    1 egg,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of milk,
    1 cupful of bread crumbs,
    Pinch of salt.

Beat the egg and milk together, adding the salt. Dip the chops into
this mixture, then into the crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Veal cutlets can be
served in the same way.


SALMON CROQUETTES

One can of salmon, the yolks of six hard boiled eggs. Mix and season
to taste with salt and pepper. Beat into the mixture one raw egg. Add
three or four grated crackers and brown in hot lard.


CREAMED OYSTERS

    1 pint small oysters,
    Milk,
    2¹⁄₂ tablespoons butter,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon paprika,
    ¹⁄₃ teaspoon celery salt.

Cook oysters in their own liquor until plump; drain and measure the
liquor; melt butter, add flour, and blend well; add oyster liquor,
and enough milk to make two cups; stir until smooth, add seasonings
and oysters, and serve on toast. Garnish with toast points and sliced
pickles.


DEVILED CRABS

One pint of crab meat; two hard boiled eggs, two tablespoonsful melted
butter, three tablespoonsful vinegar, pepper, salt, and mustard to
taste, one raw egg, well beaten. Drain the liquor from the crabs, cream
the yolks of the eggs with the butter, add seasoning, then stir in the
raw egg, then the chopped whites of the eggs and mix well with the crab
meat. Wash the shells and fill them lightly, put grated bread crumbs
over the top and pour over each two tablespoonsful of melted butter.
Place in pan and bake until light brown.


AUNT CAROLINE’S BEEF LOAF

Two pounds of beef ground in a meat chopper. Add to this one-half cup
of grated bread crumbs, two beaten eggs, a little onion, salt and
pepper to taste. Roll into a loaf, cover the top with bits of butter
and cook in oven for one and one-half hours. The juice of a can of
tomatoes poured over the loaf while baking gives a delicious flavor.


MAMMY’S CHICKEN PATTIES

One cup of cold diced chicken, two tablespoons of flour, one-half
teaspoon of salt, cayenne pepper to taste, one cup of chicken stock.

Melt butter in sauce pan; stir in flour, add chicken stock, season and
bring to boiling point. Add chicken and cook slowly for five minutes.
Fill patty shells and serve at once.


BAKED FISH

Clean, rinse and wipe dry a white fish or any fish weighing three or
four pounds. Rub the fish inside and out with salt and pepper, fill
with a stuffing like that for poultry, but drier; put in a hot greased
pan, dredge with flour and cover the top with bits of butter. Bake an
hour and a half.


CAROLINA BROILED STEAK

Sprinkle the bottom of a skillet generously with salt. Place on the
fire and let it become quite hot. Then put in the steak, turning often
so as to retain the juice. When done place on a heated platter and
season with pepper and bits of butter.


DEVILED EGGS

Cut hard boiled eggs in two the long way; remove the yolks and mash
very fine. Add vinegar, sugar, salt, pepper and mustard to taste,
also a little butter, mix well, put back into the whites and serve on
lettuce leaves or garnished with parsley. For a change, ground olives,
chicken or boiled ham may be used with the yolks.


MASSA’S CHEESE CROQUETTES

    3 tablespoonsful shortening,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon paprika,
    ¹⁄₃ cup bread flour,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon mustard,
    1 cup hot milk,
    Few grains cayenne,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt,
    1 cup cheese cut fine.

Melt shortening, add flour; add hot milk, and stir until smooth and
thick; add seasonings and cheese, and pour into a shallow dish to cool.
Shape into small pyramids, roll in sifted crumbs, dip in egg, and again
in crumbs, and fry in deep fat until brown. Serve immediately.


OYSTERS WITH MACARONI

Arrange two cups of cooked macaroni and one pint of small oysters in
layers in a buttered baking dish; season each layer with salt and
pepper, and dredge with flour; cover with buttered crumbs and bake in a
hot oven twenty minutes. One-fourth cup of grated cheese may be added.


SCALLOPED OYSTERS

One quart of oysters, one-fourth pound of butter, one-half pound of
cracker dust, one-half cup of rich cream; salt and pepper to taste.
Strew cracker dust and bits of butter over the bottom of an earthenware
pan, then a layer of oysters. Proceed in this way until pan is filled,
using a top layer of cracker dust and bits of butter. Add cream and
bake about twenty minutes in a quick oven.


CREAMED DRIED BEEF WITH CHEESE

    ¹⁄₄ pound dried beef,
    1 cup milk,
    1¹⁄₂ tablespoons butter,
    2 tablespoons grated cheese,
    2 tablespoons flour,
    2 tablespoons ketchup.

Cut beef in small pieces, cover with boiling water, let stand five
minutes and drain; melt butter, add beef and stir until hot; add flour
and milk and stir until smooth; add cheese and ketchup, and stir until
cheese is melted. Serve with baked potatoes.


CHEESE STRAWS

    One cup of grated cheese,
    One cup of sifted flour,
    One tablespoonful of butter,
    One teaspoonful of salt,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of cayenne pepper,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of baking powder.

Mix flour, cheese, salt, butter, pepper and baking powder. Mix with
iced water to make stiff dough. Cut in long slender strips. Place in
greased pans and bake in quick oven.


CHICKEN A LA KING

Boil a chicken until tender and when cool cut in dice. To diced chicken
add strips of pimentos and green peppers and a can of mushrooms. Season
with salt and pepper and mix with cream sauce. Serve hot on buttered
squares of toast.


SOUTHERN HASH

    4 raw potatoes,
    ³⁄₄ cup of water,
    2 green peppers,
    1¹⁄₂ cups cold chopped beef,
    2 tomatoes,
    Salt and pepper,
    1 onion,
    Toast points.

Put vegetables through the meat chopper, using coarse cutter; cook in
the stock, covered, until tender; add beef, salt, and pepper, and when
hot turn on a platter and garnish with toast points. If corned beef and
stock are used, use salt with care.


MAMMY’S VEAL LOAF

Mix well together three pounds of finely chopped veal, with one-half
pound pork. Add to this one-half cup of grated bread crumbs, two
beaten eggs, a little onion, salt and pepper to taste. Roll into a
loaf and pour the juice of a can of tomatoes over the loaf and two
tablespoonsful of butter, cook in oven for one hour and half.


CHICKEN CROQUETTES

Boil chicken until tender, then chop very fine. Season with a little
parsley chopped fine, salt and red and black pepper to taste. Mix with
cream sauce and shape into croquettes. Roll croquettes in beaten egg,
then in bread crumbs and fry in deep hot fat.


CREAM SAUCE

Put two cups of milk on stove to scald. Into two tablespoonsful of
melted butter rub two tablespoonsful of flour until smooth. Then add
scalded milk a little at the time to prevent lumping and season with
salt and pepper. Stir constantly until thick, then remove from the
stove.


PERLEAN

Dress and cut up one chicken as for frying. Boil until very tender,
then add two cups of rice, half a cup of butter, some salt and plenty
of pepper. Cook until it can be eaten with a fork.




                           Pickles, Relishes


AUNT CAROLINE’S OWN PICKLE

Chop fine one-half gallon of green tomatoes, one pint of onions, one
pint of green and red peppers with seeds taken out, and one gallon of
cabbage. Mix well and sprinkle two tablespoonsful of salt over it and
let stand all night. Add three quarts of vinegar, two pounds of sugar,
three teaspoonsful of celery seed, three of mustard seed, two of spice,
and one of cloves. Let simmer two hours.


TAR HEEL CHOW CHOW

Chop one head of cabbage, one gallon of green tomatoes, and one quart
of onions. Add one-half cup of salt, put in a bag and let it drain for
twenty-four hours.

Then put in kettle and add about two pounds of brown sugar, one cup of
white mustard seed, and one-half cup of celery seed. Cover with good
apple vinegar and cook until done, about three or four hours. To the
above add one or two pods of chopped red pepper.


GEORGIA WATERMELON RIND PICKLE

Cut rinds and soak over night in water to which has been added one cup
of lime to a gallon of water. Rinse in four full waters and boil until
tender in tea made of one-half gallon of water and four tablespoonsful
of ginger. Then cook in the following syrup:

    Four pounds of sugar,
    One quart of vinegar,
    Two tablespoonsful of ground cinnamon,
    One tablespoonful of allspice,
    Two tablespoonsful of whole cloves.

Cook until syrup is thick.


APPLE RELISH

    Seven pounds of apples,
    Two pounds of seeded raisins,
    One pint of vinegar,
    Three and one-half pounds of sugar,
    Two oranges,
    One teaspoonful of powdered cloves,
    Two teaspoonsful of powdered cinnamon.

Chop the raisins and put them into a porcelain lined kettle, add the
apples, chopped and unpeeled, the juice and the chopped peel of the
oranges, the sugar, vinegar and spices. Boil steadily for half an hour.


CORN RELISH

    18 ears of corn,
    1 onion,
    1 cabbage,
    ¹⁄₄ pound of mustard,
    1 pint of vinegar,
    4 cupsful of sugar,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of salt,
    2 peppers.

Cut the corn from the cob, chop, onion, peppers and cabbage, add sugar,
salt and vinegar, and cook slowly three-quarters of an hour. Ten
minutes before taking from the fire, add a very scant fourth of a pound
of dissolved mustard. Seal in glass jars.


BELL PEPPER RELISH

    Twelve green peppers,
    Twelve red peppers,
    Six medium sized onions,
    One quart of vinegar,
    One and one-half cupsful of sugar,
    Two tablespoonsful of salt.

Cut the peppers and onions into small pieces, sprinkle with salt and
cover with boiling water. Let stand until cool, then drain, place in a
kettle, and add the vinegar, and sugar. Cook for twenty minutes. Put
into jars, seal and set away until needed. Serve with cold meats.


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE

    Two quarts of green tomatoes,
    Six large onions,
    Three red peppers,
    Four quarts of cabbage, all chopped fine,
    Two ounces of white mustard seed,
    One-half ounce of celery seeds,
    Two and one-half pounds of sugar,
    One-half ounce of turmeric,
    One gill of salt,
    Two quarts of vinegar.

Soak tomatoes, onions and cabbage in salt water one-half hour, wash and
drain, add other ingredients and boil twenty minutes.


CUCUMBER PICKLE

Take enough cucumbers to fill a two-gallon jar. Cut into lengthwise
pieces and soak until fresh. Cover with equal parts of water and
vinegar, and boil an hour and ten minutes. Then take them out and boil
one and one-half hours in one gallon of fresh vinegar, two pounds of
sugar, one tablespoonful of celery seed, one tablespoonful of tumeric,
one teaspoonful each of cloves, mace and ginger, one tablespoonful
of black pepper, and one of horse radish. When cold add one-half
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper.


PICCALLI

    One-half peck of ripe tomatoes,
    One-half peck of green tomatoes,
    Twelve sweet peppers, half of them green and half ripe or red,
    Eleven small onions,
    Two quarts of vinegar,
    One quart of brown sugar,
    One tablespoonful each of all kinds of spices.

Grind in coarse meat chopper, cover with one cup of salt and let stand
over night. Next morning squeeze and put on to cook with sugar, vinegar
and spices. Cook about half an hour or longer.


STUFFED PEPPERS

Wash as many fresh green peppers as desired. Then remove the tops from
the peppers, scoop out the seeds, and fill with grated ham mixed with
cream sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and bits of butter and bake until
ready in a hot oven.


PEACH PICKLE

Peel peaches and put in stone jar. To seven pounds of fruit, use three
and one-half pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar. Boil sugar and
vinegar together awhile and pour over fruit and flavoring, cinnamon,
spice, ginger, cloves, nutmeg and mace may be used, put in little
sacks. Do this for seven or eight mornings.


CHILI SAUCE

    Twelve ripe tomatoes,
    Four ripe or three green peppers,
    Two tablespoonsful of salt,
    Two tablespoonsful of sugar,
    One tablespoonful of cinnamon,
    Three cups of vinegar.

Peel tomatoes and onions, chop very fine, add chopped peppers, and the
other ingredients and boil one and one-half hours.


MOUNT VERNON PICKLE

    One peck of green peppers,
    One string six inches long of red peppers,
    One large cabbage or two small ones,
    Four large onions,
    Four tablespoonsful of celery seed,
    One-fourth pound of black and white mustard seeds each,
    Two tablespoonful of tumeric.

Chop peppers, onions and cabbage fine and soak in one and a half cups
of salt all night. Then cover well with vinegar and put equal parts of
sugar. Add seasoning and cook about two and one-half hours.


ENGLISH CHOPPED PICKLE

    One large head of cabbage,
    One gallon of green tomatoes,
    One small bottle of sliced cucumber pickle (store pickle),
    Fifteen large onions.

Chop all fine and let stand over night, sprinkling them with salt. Do
not put cabbage with onions and tomatoes. Next morning squeeze out
the cabbage, onions and tomatoes, and put on in kettle. Add three
quarts of vinegar, four pounds of brown sugar, one package of seedless
raisins, one-half ounce of ground red pepper, eight tablespoonsful
of white mustard seed, four tablespoonsful each of celery seed, one
tablespoonful each of allspice, ginger, cloves and tumeric. Mix well
together and cook about one hour.




                           Pies and Desserts


CHESS PIES

    Three eggs,
    Two-thirds cup of sugar,
    One-half cup of butter,
    One-half cup of milk.

Cream butter and sugar and add to the well beaten yolks. Then add milk
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Mix well and bake on a nice crust. When
done, spread with the whites and three tablespoonful of sugar and a
little flavoring. Return to oven and brown.


HEAVENLY HASH

Sweeten, flavor and whip stiff one pint of cream. Add to cream one-half
pound of marshmallows cut into small pieces. Set on ice to chill.
Then add one-half pound of blanched almonds chopped fine and garnish
with maraschino cherries. Line bowl in which cream is put after being
whipped, with powdered lady fingers or macaroons.


FOOD FOR THE GODS

    One cup of sugar,
    One-fourth pound of dates,
    One-fourth pound of nuts,
    Three tablespoonsful of cracker crumbs.

Beat whites of three eggs stiff and add one heaping teaspoonful of
baking powder and the above ingredients. Cut the dates and almonds into
small pieces. Put mixture in a pudding pan set inside of a pan of water
and bake in oven one hour. Cover while cooking. Serve with cream.


STONEWALL JACKSON PUDDING

    Two cupsful of milk,
    Two egg yolks,
    One-half cup of sugar,
    Two tablespoonsful of Knox Gelatine softened in one-fourth cupful of
     cold milk,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla,
    One-eighth cupful of Sherry wine,
    Two egg whites,
    One-half pint of whipped cream.

Heat the milk to the boiling point in double boiler. Beat the yolks
very light and beat into them the sugar. Add this to the hot milk
and cook until the custard begins to get thick. Take from the fire.
Add gelatine, which has been softened in one-fourth cupful of cold
milk. Add vanilla and sherry wine and let cool. Beat the whites of
eggs stiff, and fold into them the whipped cream. When custard begins
to set, fold into it the cream and whites of eggs and put into a
mold. Mold with alternate layers of broken macaroons and crystallized
cherries.


SYLLABUB

    One pint of cream, rich and sweet,
    One-half cup of sugar,
    One cup of sherry wine,
    One teaspoonful of vanilla.

Sweeten the cream and when the sugar has dissolved, stir in the
wine carefully. Add the vanilla and beat to a stiff froth. Serve in
glasses.


U. D. C. PUDDING

    One cup of finely chopped crystallized pineapple,
    One cup of finely chopped crystallized cherries,
    One cup of finely chopped nuts,
    Six eggs.

Add a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg, beat well, leaving out the
whites. To the yolks and sugar add one cup of sherry wine and cook to
a thick custard in double boiler. To the custard while hot add one
tablespoonful of gelatine dissolved in one-half cup of water, then
whip in lightly the beaten whites. Roll out macaroons or Social Teas
into dust. Into a bowl begin to lay cracker dust, pineapple, nuts and
cherries. When you have used half the ingredients, pour over it the
other half of the fruits and custard, sprinkling the top with cracker
dust. Put into refrigerator to congeal. Serve with whipped cream (no
sugar or flavoring in cream).


RHUBARB PIE

    1 pint of Rhubarb,
    1 tablespoonful of flour,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoonful of soda.

Remove the skin, and cut into small pieces enough rhubarb to fill a
pint bowl. Add the soda, and pour over it boiling water to cover. Let
stand fifteen minutes and pour off the water. Line a deep plate with a
rich crust. Put in the rhubarb, sugar and flour, cover with crust. Bake
twenty minutes or half an hour.


JEFF DAVIS CUSTARD

    Four eggs, beaten separately,
    One cup of cream,
    Two tablespoonsful of butter,
    Two cups of sugar.

Flavor to taste. Pour the mixture on thin, rich crusts.


CREAM PUFFS

Stir one-half pound of butter into a pint of warm water, set it on the
fire in a sauce pan and bring it to a boil, stirring often. When it
boils put in three fourths of a pound of flour and let boil one minute,
stirring constantly. Take from the fire and turn into a deep dish to
cool. Beat eight eggs light, and whip into this cool paste, first the
yolks, then the whites. Drop in great spoonsful on buttered paper so as
not to touch or run into each other, and bake ten minutes. Split them
and fill with the following cream:

    One quart of milk,
    Four tablespoonsful of cornstarch,
    Two eggs,
    Two cups sugar.

Stir while boiling and when thick, add a teaspoonful of butter. When
cold, flavor.


BROWN BETTY

Pare and slice apples thin. Put alternate layers of apples and bread
crumbs sprinkled with cinnamon, bits of butter, and brown sugar in
buttered baking dish. Then add one cup of water and bake until apples
are thoroughly done and brown on top.


SOUTHERN APPLE PIE

    6 apples,
    Grated rind and juice of one lemon,
    ¹⁄₂ cup of sugar,
    1 teaspoon cinnamon,
    2 macaroons rolled,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt,
    2 tablespoons butter,
    2 eggs slightly beaten.

Pare and slice apples, add one-quarter cup of water; cook until soft,
and rub through a sieve; add other ingredients in order given. Line a
deep plate or patty tins with rich paste, fill, and bake about forty
minutes. Cake crumbs may be substituted for macaroons.


CARAMEL CUSTARD

Line a pie plate with nice pastry. For one custard allow one egg
well beaten, one cup of brown sugar, four teaspoonsful of milk, one
tablespoonful of flour or starch and a piece of butter the size of an
egg. Pour this in the crust and bake. After baking make a meringue and
bake a delicate brown.


PALMETTO MARMALADE

    Two quarts of fresh pears ground fine,
    Two cans of grated pineapple,
    Six oranges cut into small pieces,
    As many cups of sugar as there are cupsful of fruit.

Put all together on to cook and cook until thick and a pretty red
color.


AUNT JEMIMA’S LEMON PIE

    Six eggs,
    One and one-half cups of sugar,
    Two tablespoonsful of butter,
    Three lemons,
    Two tablespoonsful of flour,
    One-half teaspoonful of baking powder,
    One cup of milk.

To well beaten yolks add sugar, flour, milk, butter, baking powder,
juice and grated rind of three lemons. Cook in double boiler until
thick and then bake on a nice crust. After baking, make a meringue of
the whites and bake a delicate brown.


NUT BREAD

    2¹⁄₂ cupsful of flour,
    3 teaspoonsful of baking powder,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoonful of salt,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of sugar,
    1 egg,
    1 cupful of milk,
    ³⁄₄ cupful of English Walnuts chopped fine.

Beat egg and sugar together, then add milk and salt. Sift the
baking-powder into the dry flour, and put all the ingredients together.
Add the nuts last, covering with a little flour, to prevent falling,
and bake in a moderate oven one hour.


CHOCOLATE PUDDING

Put two squares of unsweetened chocolate in double boiler, add two
cupsful of cold milk, and bring to the scalding point. Mix thoroughly
one-fourth of a cupful of sugar, three tablespoonsful of cornstarch,
one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt and pour on one-fourth of a cupful
of milk gradually, while stirring constantly. Add to milk which was
scalded with chocolate, and cook fifteen minutes, stirring constantly
until mixture thickens and afterward occasionally. Add one-half of a
teaspoonful of vanilla and turn into a serving dish. Chill and serve.


MARYLAND BREAD PUDDING

    1 pint of stale bread,
    1 quart of milk,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    1 egg,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of raisins,
    1 teaspoonful of cinnamon,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt.

Pour hot water on the stale bread and let soak until soft. Then add
other ingredients and bake for three hours in a moderate oven. If eaten
cold, serve with hot sauce. If eaten hot, serve with cold sauce.


SUNSET RAISIN PIE

    One cup of seeded raisins chopped fine,
    One lemon with grated rind.

Add lemon juice and grated rind to the raisins. Then add one cup of
sugar and two tablespoonsful of water. Bake between upper and lower
crusts.


SAUCE FOR GINGER BREAD

    One cup of sugar,
    One tablespoonful of butter,
    Creamed together.

Add one-half cup of cream or milk and five tablespoonsful of wine. Stir
constantly while cooking until dissolved and creamy. Flavor to taste
with vanilla or nutmeg.


SOFT GINGER BREAD

    One-half cup of sugar,
    One cup of molasses,
    One-half cup of butter or lard,
    One teaspoonful each of ginger, cinnamon and cloves,
    Two teaspoonsful of soda in a cup of boiling water,
    Two and one-half cups of flour,
    Two well beaten eggs added last.

Mix in the order given and bake in slow oven.


CRANBERRY SURPRISE

Crumble three lady fingers into a baking dish, cover with a thin layer
of cranberry preserves or jelly. Dot with small lumps of butter and add
a sprinkle of cinnamon. Beat three eggs separately very light and add
two cups of milk. Pour over the fruit and cake. Bake as a custard and
serve with whipped cream.


LOUISIANA MOLASSES CUSTARD

Mix well the yolks of two eggs, one cup of molasses, one scant cup of
sugar, one cup of buttermilk with pinch of soda and two tablespoonsful
of flour. Flavor with cinnamon and vanilla. Cook in double boiler until
thick, then bake on a rich pie crust. Use the whites for meringue.


JELLIED APPLES

Put on four cups of sugar and four cups of water with six cloves and
bring to boiling point.

Peel and core apples and drop them into boiling syrup. Cover kettle and
let apples steam slowly until they are clear and tender. Pour last of
syrup over fruit and serve.


MAMMY’S SWEET POTATO PUDDING

Grate three medium sized potatoes. Beat together one cup of sugar,
three eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one pint of milk, and add to
the grated potato.

Pour in a buttered pan, drop bits of butter on top and bake one hour in
a moderate oven. Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla.


RAISIN ROLLS

    1¹⁄₂ cupsful of flour,
    ¹⁄₂ cupful of lard (scant),
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt,
    1 cupful of raisins,
    1 cracker,
    1 lemon,
    ²⁄₃ cupful of sugar,
    1 egg,
    A little salt.

Beat the egg, add sugar, salt, lemon juice and grated rind. Roll
cracker fine, chop raisins and mix all together. Roll the crust thin,
cut into rounds. Put a spoonful of filling between two rounds and pinch
the edges together. Prick top crust with fork. Bake in iron pan for
twenty minutes.


NEW ORLEANS DARK NUT BREAD

    ¹⁄₄ cup of sugar,
    ³⁄₄ cup hot water,
    ¹⁄₂ cup molasses,
    ¹⁄₄ cup milk,
    2 cups entire wheat flour,
    1 cup bread flour,
    5 teaspoons baking powder,
    1¹⁄₂ teaspoons salt,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoon soda,
    ³⁄₄ cup nut meats, finely chopped.

Mix in order given, sifting dry materials together before adding. Turn
into a greased bread pan, let stand fifteen minutes, and bake in a
moderate oven one hour.


BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS

Take rich pie crust, roll thin as for pie and cut into rounds as large
as a tea plate. Pare and slice fine, one small apple for each dumpling.
Lay the apple on the crust, sprinkle on tiny bit of sugar and nutmeg,
turn edges of crust over the apple and press together. Bake in a hot
oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot with cold sauce.


JOHN BROWN CUSTARD

    One quart of milk,
    Four eggs,
    One-half cup of sugar.

Beat eggs and sugar carefully together while milk is scalding. Then
add gradually scalded milk, put back on stove and cook until thick,
stirring constantly to prevent lumping. When cool, add any flavoring
desired.


VIRGINIA DARE PUDDING

Sift one quart of flour and into the flour put one pound of raisins,
one pound of currants, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one pound of
sugar, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ground spice. Beat four
eggs and add after mixing the fruit well in the flour, and mix with
enough water to make a stiff batter as for fruit cake. Boil or bake and
serve with sauce. Cook for about two hours.


SWEET POTATO CUSTARD

    3 cooked sweet potatoes,
    ¹⁄₄ nutmeg grated,
    2 eggs,
    ¹⁄₄ cup brown sugar,
    ¹⁄₃ teaspoon salt,
    1 quart milk.

Force potatoes through a ricer; beat the eggs and mix with potatoes;
add other ingredients, pour into buttered baking dish or cups, and bake
in a slow oven until firm.


BANANA CUSTARD

    Mix well the yolks of two eggs,
    One-half cup of sweet milk,
    One-half cup of sugar,
    One teaspoonful of butter,
    Two tablespoonsful of flour.

Cook in double boiler until thick. When cool, add one teaspoonful of
vanilla. Bake on a nice crust. When cool, cover pie with thin slices of
banana, then the meringue, and bake a delicate brown.


STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE

Make regular pie crust and roll it into two sheets, each about one-half
inch thick. Bake in well-greased pan, laying one sheet on top of the
other. When done and while warm separate them. When cold put between
the crusts a thick layer of strawberries well sprinkled with powdered
sugar. Arrange largest berries on top. Cut in wedge-shaped pieces and
serve with sweetened whipped cream.


TAPIOCA CUSTARD

One quart of milk and one cup of soaked and drained tapioca should be
placed in a double boiler and cooked until the tapioca is transparent;
then add one cup of sugar and the yolks of three well beaten eggs. Let
it cook for a few minutes, flavor as desired and pour into a bowl.
Cover the top with the whites of the eggs beaten stiff and sweetened.


BAVARIAN CREAM

One quart of sweet cream whipped with two cups of sugar as stiff as
for syllabub, two-thirds of a box of gelatine dissolved over the fire
in two cups of milk, stirring constantly. Let cool. Flavor cream to
taste, then beat in the milk and gelatine. If desired, fruits, nuts,
and maraschino cherries may be added.


CRANBERRY SNOW

Whip stiff the white of one egg and add alternately and gradually three
tablespoonsful of sugar and a cup of cranberry sauce. Continue to whip
until it has reached at least a pint and a half in quantity, for it
swells surprisingly. Finely chopped nuts may be added if desired.


CHOCOLATE PIE

    One-fourth cake of chocolate,
    Two cups of sugar,
    One-half cup of butter,
    Four eggs,
    One tablespoon of flour.

Beat yolks together with butter, sugar, milk and flour. Cook in double
boiler until thick, then bake on a nice crust. Use whites for meringue.


PUMPKIN PIE

    2 cupsful of stewed and sifted pumpkin,
    2 crackers rolled fine,
    1 cupful of sugar,
    Pinch of salt,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of cinnamon,
    1 pint of milk.

Pour the mixture into a deep pie-plate lined with crust, and bake in a
slow oven one hour.




                         Salads and Dressings


MAYONNAISE DRESSING (Without Oil)

Mix together two tablespoonsful of flour, one teaspoonful of mustard,
one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar. Add this to two
eggs well beaten, and lastly one cup of vinegar. Put on to cook in a
double boiler and cook until thick, stirring frequently.


MARYLAND CHICKEN SALAD

Boil one large chicken until tender and when cold cut in dice. To diced
chicken add four hard boiled eggs mashed fine, one and a half bunches
of celery chopped fine and salt and pepper to taste. Mix well with oil
dressing and the juice of one lemon.


POTATO SALAD

Five medium sized, cold, boiled Irish potatoes, diced; three hard
boiled eggs and a few pieces of parsley chopped fine, and one cup of
diced celery. Season with salt, black and red pepper and mix well with
oil dressing.


WESSON OIL DRESSING

    Yolks of three eggs,
    One-half teaspoon of salt,
    One-fourth teaspoon of mustard,
    One-fourth teaspoon of red pepper,
    Juice of one lemon,
    Pint of Wesson Oil.

Beat yolks until thick; then add salt, pepper, mustard and part of
lemon juice. Lastly add the oil one drop at a time at first, then
slowly until dressing is thick, and then the remainder of the lemon
juice.


TOMATO JELLY

Cover one-half box of gelatine with one and one-half cups of cold
water. Stew one quart can of tomatoes until tender and strain. Season
with salt, pepper and sugar to taste and bring to boiling point. Pour
hot tomato juice into the melted gelatine and add to this one hard
boiled egg sliced thin. One small bottle of stuffed olives sliced thin
and one-half cup of nuts. Pour into small molds wet with cold water and
serve on lettuce with oil dressing.


FRENCH DRESSING

    ²⁄₃ cup oil,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoon pepper,
    ¹⁄₃ cup vinegar,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon mustard,
    1¹⁄₄ teaspoons salt,
    1 teaspoon powdered sugar.

Put the ingredients in a pint preserve jar; fasten the cover, chill
and shake well before using. Keep in the ice-box and use as needed.
For use with fruit salad, omit mustard, Curry, Brand’s A1 sauce,
Worchestershire sauce, tomato ketchup, or similar condiments may be
added in small amounts to vary the flavor.


WALDORF SALAD

Two cups of apples peeled and diced. Two cups of celery and one cup of
nuts. Mix well together with oil dressing.


SHRIMP SALAD

    3 cups cooked shrimp, minced,
    ¹⁄₄ cup chopped olives,
    1 cup Mayonnaise,
    1 cup chopped celery,
    2 tablespoons chopped pimento,
    ¹⁄₂ cup French dressing.

Marinate shrimp in French dressing; drain, add celery, olives and
pimento. Mix with Mayonnaise and fill tomato cases, putting a teaspoon
Mayonnaise on each. Serve on leaf of head lettuce.


PINEAPPLE AND COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD

For each person allow two lettuce leaves, one slice of pineapple and
three dates stuffed with cream cheese. Cut the pineapple in cubes and
place on the lettuce; cut dates in halves lengthwise, remove stones,
stuff with cream cheese and arrange on pineapple; sprinkle cheese with
paprika and dress all with French Dressing.


WATER LILY SALAD

    Six hard boiled eggs,
    Mayonnaise dressing,
    Lettuce.

Cut the white of each egg into six long petals. Arrange the pieces in
circular form on the lettuce. Form the center of each Lily by putting
in the yolks, well mixed with mayonnaise.


MARSHMALLOW SALAD

Cut into small pieces marshmallows, white grapes, sliced pineapple,
almonds or pecans and a little banana, sliced thin. Serve on lettuce
with oil dressing and maraschino cherries to garnish it.


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD

    Two cans of white cherries,
    One can of sliced pineapple,
    One can of pears,
    One half dozen oranges,
    Three pints of cream,
    Two pints of dressing.

Whip the cream, sweeten and flavor to taste. Mix the cream and the
dressing. Put in the fruit, but do not use the juice of the fruit. Pack
the mixture in coffee or baking powder cans and let them remain in the
ice four or five hours. A small tub can be used to set the cans in and
pack ice and salt around them.




                                 Soups


OLD VIRGINIA BRUNSWICK STEW

Boil one chicken and one rabbit or squirrel in two or three quarts of
water. When about half done add one quart of lima beans, one quart of
tomatoes, one quart of corn and butter the size of two eggs. Season to
taste with salt and pepper and cook until thick enough to eat with a
fork.


AUNT CAROLINE’S PORRIDGE

Pick over and wash two-thirds of a cupful of white beans. Put on the
back of the stove in cold water. Let these boil slowly, while the
dinner is cooking. When the boiled dinner has been taken up, put
these beans into the liquor in which the dinner was cooked. Boil one
hour. Wet three tablespoonsful of flour with water, and stir in while
boiling, to thicken. Serve hot, adding a little milk, if you like.


CREAM OF CELERY SOUP

Three stalks of celery, chopped fine, one slice of onion, three cupfuls
of milk. Boil for twenty minutes, then add three tablespoonsful of
melted butter. Thicken with three tablespoonsful of flour dissolved in
a little milk. Add salt and pepper to taste, then one cupful of cream
and serve hot.


TOMATO BISQUE

Put a quart of tomatoes in a kettle and boil for about twenty minutes
or until juice is thick. Season with salt, pepper and sugar to taste,
then add one-half teaspoonful of soda. Strain and add to hot strained
juice one pint of scalded milk. Boil a few minutes and serve with
oyster crackers or squares of toast.


TOMATO SOUP CREOLE STYLE

    One quart of tomatoes,
    One tablespoonful of butter,
    One tablespoonful of flour,
    One onion,
    Sprig of parsley,
    Salt and pepper to taste.

Put tomatoes, onion, parsley, salt and pepper on to cook. When cooling
add flour and butter which have been creamed together. Cook until thick.


DIXIE LAND SOUP

    4 potatoes,
    3 pints of milk,
    Piece of butter size of an egg,
    Small piece of onion.

Take four large potatoes, boil until done and mash smooth, adding
butter and salt to taste. Heat the milk in a double boiler, cook
the onion in it a few minutes and then remove. Pour the milk slowly
on the potato, strain, heat and serve immediately. Thicken with one
tablespoonful of flour.


CREAM OF TOMATO

Put a quart of tomatoes in a kettle, add one cupful of water and
boil for about ten minutes; season with salt, pepper, and sugar to
taste, then add one-half teaspoonful of soda. When the tomatoes have
boiled, strain them and add to the strained juice one pint of scalded
milk. Lastly add one cupful of cream in which a little flour has been
blended.


BALTIMORE OYSTER STEW

    25 oysters,
    1 teaspoonful of flour,
    1 quart of milk,
    Butter,
    Salt.

Take twenty-five oysters, with their liquor and put these into an agate
dish on the stove with salt to taste, in a pint of cold water. Boil
five minutes. Stir into this one heaping teaspoonful of flour, which
has been wet with two tablespoonsful of cold water. Add one quart of
milk. Let it come to a boil, but be sure not to have it boil. Remove
from the fire, and add a piece of butter the size of an egg. This is
sufficient for eight people.


CREAM OF PEA SOUP

    1 can peas,
    1¹⁄₄ teaspoons salt,
    1 slice onion,
    ¹⁄₈ teaspoon pepper,
    Bit of bay leaf,
    2 cups boiling water,
    Sprig of parsley,
    2 cups hot milk,
    1 teaspoon sugar,
    1 tablespoon butter,
    2 tablespoons flour.

Rinse the peas with cold water, and reserve one-fourth cup; simmer
the remainder with seasonings and hot water for twenty minutes, and
press through a sieve; thicken the milk with butter and flour blended
together, and add to peas. Add the whole peas just before serving.


CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP

    3 cups of chicken stock,
    Salt,
    1 slice onion,
    ¹⁄₈ teaspoon pepper,
    ¹⁄₄ cup celery tops,
    2 tablespoons chicken fat or butter,
    1 cup hot milk,
    3 tablespoons flour.

Cook stock, onion, and celery for fifteen minutes, and strain; add hot
milk and seasonings, and thicken with chicken fat and flour blended
together. The amount of salt will depend upon the quantity in the
stock. Celery salt may be used in place of celery tops.


OATMEAL SOUP

    ³⁄₄ cup cooked oatmeal,
    2 cups hot milk,
    ¹⁄₂ onion sliced,
    1 teaspoon salt,
    2 cloves,
    ¹⁄₈ teaspoon celery salt,
    ¹⁄₂ bay leaf,
    ¹⁄₈ teaspoon pepper,
    2 cups boiling water,
    ¹⁄₂ tablespoon butter.

Cook oatmeal, onion, cloves, and bay leaf in boiling water for twenty
minutes, and press through a sieve; add milk, seasonings, and butter,
and serve with croutons.




                              Vegetables


GENERAL PICKETT CORN PUDDING

    One pint of fresh corn,
    or
    One can of corn,
    Two eggs,
    One cup of sweet milk,
    One cup of sugar,
    Butter the size of an egg,
    Little salt,
    One tablespoonful of flour,
    One-fourth teaspoonful of baking powder.

Mix well together, leaving out whites for meringue. Pour into baking
dish and cook in hot oven. When cool, beat whites of eggs stiff,
sweeten and flavor, spread on top of pudding and bake a delicate brown.


DIXIE POTATOES

    4 or 5 baked potatoes,
    1 pint of milk,
    ¹⁄₂ teaspoonful of salt,
    Butter, the size of a walnut.

Pare the potatoes and cut into small pieces. Put them on the stove,
in an agate dish, salt and cover with milk. Let them cook fifteen or
twenty minutes, then thicken with one tablespoonful of flour, stirred
with half a cupful of water; put in the butter and serve hot.


SOUTHERN CREAMED SWEET POTATOES

To two cups of mashed sweet potatoes add one teaspoonful of cinnamon,
one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of seeded
raisins and butter size of an egg. Cook in buttered baking dish and
when done, cool, spread the top with marshmallows and brown in oven.


STUFFED POTATOES WITH CHEESE

Select large Irish potatoes and bake. When done cut in half, take meat
of potato from shell, mix with little salt, pepper and grated cheese.
Put back in shell, put butter on top and bake light brown.


SCALLOPED IRISH POTATOES

Cut raw potatoes into small cubes and put into baking dish. Add salt,
pepper and pieces of butter. Cover with sweet milk and cook in the oven.


STUFFED TOMATOES

Peel large ripe tomatoes and cut in quarters, place in the center of
each tomato one tablespoonful of ground stuffed olives, one teaspoonful
of ground, hard boiled egg, one teaspoonful of English walnuts or
pecans. Serve on lettuce with oil dressing and grated cheese sprinkled
on top of dressing.


SCALLOPED TOMATOES IN SHELLS

Peel as many fresh tomatoes as persons to serve. Make small round
opening at the top by hollowing with a teaspoon. Season highly with
mayonnaise, catsup, mustard and enough crab flake to fill the tomatoes.
Set on ice and serve very cold for luncheon.


AUNT KATY’S MACARONI

    One-half small sized package of macaroni,
    One-third pound cheese,
    One cup of milk,
    Butter the size of a walnut,
    One-half cup of bread crumbs.

Put macaroni on to boil in water with a little salt. When tender drain
off water. Put in a baking dish first a layer of macaroni, then cheese,
crumbs and butter. Pour milk over it and bake.


IRISH POTATO PUFFS

    Two cups of cold mashed potatoes,
    Two tablespoonsful of melted butter.

Beat together until smooth, and add two well beaten eggs and one cup of
sweet milk. Pour into a baking dish, bake quickly and serve immediately.


STEWED CELERY

Wash 4 heads and take off the green leaves. Cut into pieces 3 or 4
inches long, put into a stew-pan with ¹⁄₂ pint of meat broth, stew
till tender. Add a little cream and seasoning; also a little flour and
butter, and simmer together.


BAKED TOMATOES

Take out from the top the inside of large tomatoes, with this mix bread
crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, a little sugar and some chopped onions.
Fill the tomatoes with this, set them in a deep dish or plate and bake
slowly for ¹⁄₂ hour.


MAMMY’S CANDIED SWEET POTATOES

Boil 6 small sized sweet potatoes, peel them and lay on a shallow plate
or pan. Put a teaspoon butter on each potato, sprinkle on them ¹⁄₂ cup
of brown sugar, 2 tablespoons water in pan, cook slowly and baste as
you would meat. Cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and lemon peel improve the
flavor.


BOILED TURNIPS

Cut up 5 or 6 flat white turnips and chop fine in a chopping-bowl.
Put into boiling water and cook till tender. Drain off the water, add
sufficient seasoning and ¹⁄₂ cup good vinegar. Let them simmer on the
stove about ten minutes. These are excellent.


STEWED GREEN CORN

Cut the corn off the cob, boil in a little water 15 or 20 minutes. When
done, add a cup of milk or cream, a little butter, and season to taste.


CREOLE POTATO BALLS

Mash some mealy potatoes smooth, season, and add butter and cream till
quite moist; make up into balls, dip in beaten eggs, roll in bread
crumbs, and fry in butter to a nice brown.


POTATO CHIPS

Pare the potatoes, shave them very thin, soak for ¹⁄₂ hour in ice-cold
salted water; drain in a colander, and spread upon a dry towel; fry a
few at a time in very hot fat, 1 minute being sufficient to cook and
brown them properly, sprinkle lightly with salt, and when needed at
table, heat quickly in the oven.


STUFFED POTATOES WITH CHEESE AND BACON

    4 large potatoes,
    ³⁄₄ teaspoon salt,
    4 tablespoons grated cheese,
    ¹⁄₄ teaspoon paprika,
    ¹⁄₄ cup hot milk,
    4 slices bacon.

Wash potatoes and bake in a hot oven forty-five minutes; cut in halves
lengthwise, remove potato, and force through potato ricer; add cheese,
seasonings, and hot milk; beat vigorously, and refill potato skins;
place half a slice of bacon on top of each, and put on the upper grate
of a hot oven until bacon is crisp.


JENNY LIND POTATOES

Four large, cold, boiled potatoes, peeled and sliced, 2 tablespoons
butter, 1 pint hot milk, 2 tablespoons flour. Melt butter and add hot
milk and flour, when thick add salt, pepper and parsley. Put a layer of
mixture in bottom of baking dish, then a layer of potato, and so on;
milk coming last. Cover with cracker crumbs and bake 15 minutes.


CAROLINA SWEET POTATO PONE

One qt. sweet potatoes, peeled and grated; pour over the grated potato
1 pint boiling water, stir it well; add 1 tea-cup brown sugar, 2
tea-cups molasses, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 heaping tablespoon powdered
ginger, 1 tea-cup milk; pour into a baking dish and bake slowly for
about 2 hours.


SCALLOPED POTATOES

Butter a baking-dish, pare and slice potatoes in small pieces. Put into
the dish with salt, pepper and a little butter. Fill the dish with
milk, sprinkle over the top cracker, or bread crumbs, and cheese if you
like it. Bake in the oven for an hour and a half or two hours.


FRENCH FRIED SWEET POTATOES

Cut cold boiled sweet potatoes into eighths lengthwise, fry in deep fat
until brown, drain on soft paper, and sprinkle with salt.


FRIED EGG PLANT

Cut a small egg plant in one-third-inch slices; pare; cut each slice
in quarters; soak in cold salted water for half an hour; drain; season
with pepper and salt, dip in crumbs, then in egg, and then in crumbs
again; and fry in deep fat about three minutes. Or dip in flour and
sauté in butter.




                          Transcriber’s Notes

In the Foreword, “recogonizes no peers” changed to “recognizes no peers”

Page 13: “teaspoonsfuls of sugar” changed to “teaspoonsful of sugar” “a
warm plce” changed to “a warm place” “teaspoonfuls of baking powder”
changed to “teaspoonsful of baking powder”

Page 15: “teaspoonfuls of baking powder” changed to “teaspoonsful of
baking powder”

Page 17: “teaspoonsfuls of baking powder” changed to “teaspoonsful of
baking powder”

Page 19: “teaspoonsful of soda” changed to “teaspoonful of soda”

Page 21: “aobut two hours” changed to “about two hours”

Page 23: “LOUISIANIA COFFEE” changed to “LOUISIANA COFFEE”

Page 31: “OLD DOMINON CAKE” changed to “OLD DOMINION CAKE” “one
tablesponful” changed to “one tablespoonful”

Page 33: “One-hlf cup-of” changed to “One-half cup of”

Page 47: “four tablespoonful” changed to “four tablespoonsful”

Page 53: “One teasponful” changed to “One teaspoonful”

Page 55: “not sirup” changed to “not syrup”

Page 57: “stirred contsantly” changed to “stirred constantly”

Page 61: “Bet until” changed to “Beat until”

Page 65: “dish; and liquid,” changed to “dish; add liquid,”

Page 67: “Mix ingredinets” changed to “Mix ingredients”

Page 71: “own liqour” changed to “own liquor”

Page 77: “One-fourth teasponful” changed to “One-fourth teaspoonful”

Page 81: “two tablespoonsfuls” changed to “two tablespoonsful”

Page 87: “of tumeric” changed to “of turmeric”

Page 95: “with marschino” changed to “with maraschino”

Page 99: “one talbespoonful” changed to “one tablespoonful”

Page 117: “three tabelspoonsful” changed to “three tablespoonsful”

Page 123: “and sreve” changed to “and serve”

Page 133: “tweny-five” changed to “twenty-five”

Page 137: “Pare the potaoes” changed to “Pare the potatoes”

Page 139: “with mashmallows” changed to “with marshmallows” “Irish
pototaes” changed to “Irish potatoes”

Page 141: “put into a stew-pan” changed to “put into a stew-pan”

Page 147: “into eigthths” changed to “into eighths” “moderate oaven”
changed to “moderate oven”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AUNT CAROLINE'S DIXIELAND
RECIPES ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
